1 、Your school is going to help the community. Which of the following would you prefer? 1) clean itters and trash 2)plant trees and flowers 3)teach children knowledge about the environment.
Personally I would choose to teach children to be friendly to the environment because once the children have understood the importance of environmental protection, they will stay engaged and inspire people around them to do so as well. For instance, when I was in elementary school, my teacher once told us that when we used plastic bags or bottles for our food and drink, we were in fact murdering a lot of animals and plants in the forests and coastal waters because that was where all the unrecyclable trash is disposed. After hearing that, my classmates and I all became very conscious about using plastic containers and to this day, we still barely use any plastic bags and bottles in our household.
2 、Describe the book you like the most where you were a child
Speaking of my favorite book in childhood, I will always proudly reply: Harry Potter. The first very simple reason is that I grew up with the story. I was lucky to be the same age as Harry, Ron and Hermione, and they accompanied me through my childhood. They helped me understand the value of friendship, bravery and love. Furthermore, as a reader, I enjoyed some really pleasurable times when I discussed the stories with my friends. The book reminds me of the happy moments we share with each other. Therefore, Harry Potter is and will always be my favorite book.
3 、Science club, hiking club, which one are you interested in?
Personally speaking, I'd be interested in joining the toastmasters club because it provides a good

opportunity for me to express my thoughts and ideas genuinely and to learn from other people's ideas as well. For instance, back in college, a friend of mine was an officer at the Toastmasters International. He went from being a really shy boy to a confident, outspoken man thanks to all the practice and exchanges at the club. Before that, he always had a hard time expressing himself in a way that he could be heard clearly. But by the time we graduated from college, he was appointed to deliver a speech at our commencement ceremony. Therefore, I'd join the toastmasters to improve my public speaking skills.
4 、Which one you will learn: play a piano, swim, and repair a car.
Personally speaking, I would like to learn how to swim because if I can swim, I will be able to join my friends whenever they go to the beach. For instance, last week some of friends were celebrating the end of summer and went to the beach for water activities. They invited me to go with them but I had to turn them down because I couldn’t swim and was so afraid that something bad would happen to me when I was playing in the water. After my friends came back, they told me about all the fun time they had such as the time when they played water polo or went snorkeling, which made me feel so jealous. Therefore, I'd like to learn to swim.
5 、When you and your friend have disagreement, what would you do to solve the disagreement?
In my opinion, the most effective way to resolve disagreements with anyone is to really understand why the other person thinks or feels that way because then we can be more considerate and compromise. For instance, last week I disagreed with my friend about what we should have for dinner. She felt like having Japanese food whereas I was craving Thai food. I asked her why she wanted to have Japanese food. She told me that she was in fact not that hungry and could only eat in small portions. Having understood this, I told her that we could share our food at the Thai restaurant and I'd take care of the food that she couldn't finish. Therefore, understanding is the best way to resolve disagreements.
6 、Talk about a subject you enjoy learning in school.
My favorite subject in school was math. I love math because no matter how complex the problems are, there are always solutions to them, and I can always find the solutions. Maybe I have inherited a certain gift from my parents who are both scientists. And the day I first started to learn algebra was fantastic. Suddenly, there weren’t just numbers involved, but letters too! That opened up a new world of possibilities. I remember spending an entire rainy afternoon just solving algebra problems for fun. I also love math because it is everywhere around you. The measurements for the building you’re in, the equations necessary to make a car engine run... Math is so fundamental to our lives. It’s wonderful.

7 、What food do you suggest university cafeteria should add to attract more people?
I think the university cafeteria should include salads and fruits in its menu. The reason why I think so is that the university cafeteria is offering a wide selection of high protein, high fat, and high carbohydrate food to students at the moment. As a result, a lot of students would either eat somewhere else off-campus or prepare their own food for their health concerns. In addition, eating the greasy food at the university cafeteria day after day, most students have got sick of the food already. By adding fresh salads and fruits to its menu, the cafeteria will be able to provide more healthy meals to students and thus attract more people to eat there.
8 、Police officers, transportation workers, building designers, which do you think is the most important to a city?
In my opinion, ，policemen are the most important occupation for the city because they are the people who make sure we can work and live safely in the city. For example, every morning the city streets are always packed with tons of people and cars. If there were no police coordinating the traffic on the streets, people wouldn’t have been able to arrive at their workplace
safely in a timely fashion. In addition, I often work late at night and thanks to the police, it is actually very sate to drive or walk in the city at night. For these reasons, I think the policemen are the most important job in the city.
9 、Talk about on of your family member who has similar traits as you. Describe that trait.
In my family，, my sister shares most similar traits and behavior with me. For starters, both of us have round faces and small eyes yet both our parents have long faces and big eyes. That's why most people can easily identify me and my sister as family but not me and my parents. In addition to physical traits, my sister and I are both very attentive to details. For example, we are able to notice small changes in people’s clothes or in our surroundings very easily whereas no one else in our family has this ability. For these reasons, I consider my sister the person who shares most similarities in traits and behavior with me.
10 、What are the benefits of talking to older family members
In my opinion, the benefit of talking to older members in the family include learning from their experience and increasing my own wisdom because they have been through many things that young people like myself can never imagine. For example, my grandfather grew up in a completely different environment from mine. He spent his youth in wars and I enjoy listening to his stories about things he saw on the battlefield. I am able to learn from his experience of surviving hardships every time when I talk to him and try to apply his strategies to my own situation. In addition, I feel wiser after talking to him because he has seen a lot more of humanity than I have.

11 、Describe one family member who has different characteristics from other members.
In my family,my younger sister’s personality is quite different because she is an independent thinker and the most optimistic person in our family. For example, last Sunday our family went to a movie together and after the movie we were discussing the plot of the movie. My younger sister was the one who pointed out several logical errors in the story development. In addition, my sister is an optimistic person while everyone else in my family is quite pessimistic and paranoid. For instance, when we were trying to book the movie tickets online last Sunday to avoid getting in a long line, my younger sister thought that we should just go there directly without worrying so much.
12 、Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children should be required to help with household tasks as long as they grow old enough to do so. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
In my opinion, children should not be required to help with household work because a lot of households tasks are dangerous for children and it also takes a child a lot more time to complete those tasks. For example, my mom once asked me to do the dishes for her when I was nine years old. As it turned out, my hands were not strong enough to hold the slippery dishes and I accidentally broke a couple of dishes. My fingers were slightly hurt by the broken pieces and it actually took my mom more time to clean the dishes because she had to keep an eye on me the whole time.
13 、What kind of strategy do you use to handle an overwhelming amount of work.
I think making a plan ahead of time and sticking to it is the way to go. For example, I did a twenty-page paper for my history class last semester. I was pretty concerned about not being able to handle it so I sat down and made a plan before starting the project. The plan was to start the whole thing by going to the library so that I have all the right books and material for my research, and then try to finish the first draft within two week. After that I’d show it to my professor for feedbacks and suggestions on how to improve it. I followed this plan and everything worked out pretty well at the end.
14 、(VI) You are admitted to two universities at the same time. One is prestigious but has a high tuition and the other is not but gives you a scholarship. Which would you go to and why? Personally, I would choose to go to the prestigious university, even without a scholarship because I'll have that degree for the rest of my life. That will allow me to be part of an elite alumni network. For example I am currently part of the Johns Hopkins University's global alumni network A while ago, I was chosen for an interview for my job after graduate school because the human resources department chose my resume based on my John Hopkins degree. This job allowed me

to pay back the loans I took out to attend the school, which shows the benefit of choosing a prestigious university even without a scholarship because the cost ends up paying for itself.
(V2) You are a leader of a student organization. There is a freshman student who is nervous in this environment. What would you do to help this student in this new environment?
Personally, I would try to mentor this student and give the student the kind of assistance I found useful when I was new to the school. That would allow the student to feel comfortable and also to understand the steps that I have taken to achieve success myself For example, when I was in college I didn't know many people at first and I joined the student newspaper. After my first year I became the Arts Editor. When a new student expressed interest in writing about the arts, I invited them to lunch and introduced them to other editors. As a result, three of them later became editors of sections and one of them became the editor of whole newspaper. This shows the benefits of mentoring new students.
15 、Describe what your life would be like if you were not allowed to use the cellphone for a month. Explain why. Please include details and examples in your explanation.
If I were not allowed to use the cellphone for a month, then I would have to plan social activities much further ahead because it would be impossible for us to contact each other if we were not sitting by a landline telephone For example, I would have to tell my friends exactly where to meet me and also that since I did not have a cell phone, I would not be able to change my plans, which would be very important for them to be on time. This would make it more difficult to have spontaneous plans. Also, I think I would probably sleep better because I wouldn't be tempted to use my phone right before I go to bed. Therefore, life without the cellphone for a month can be both good and bad.
16 、A friend of yours always gets up late in the morning and misses his morning classes. The professor has told him that this behavior will affect his grade. What advice would you give him and why? Please include details and examples in your explanation.
Personally, I ’ d tell my friend to completely change his sleeping habits he needs to go to bed early and get up early in the morning from now on because once he finishes school and starts to work, he still has to get up early for work and at work, no one will tolerate his chronic tardiness. For example, a friend of mine in college always got up late in the morning and was never on time for any of her morning classes because she always went to bed after midnight. After we finished school and started working for the same company, she did not change her sleeping habits and was let go by our supervisor the third time she was late to work. Therefore, I'd tell my friend to change his sleeping habits now.
17 、Your friend has to work a lot. Please suggest a hobby him to help him spend his weekend

in a more delightful way. Explain why. Please include details and examples in your explanation.
Personally, I would tell my friend to do yoga on weekends because it ’ s not only a good exercise for our body but also an opportunity for us to meditate and calm down. For example, I work 80 hours per week and for most of the time during the week, I feel irritable and tired. However, I do yoga every weekend to balance my body and mind. Whenever I do yoga, my mind stops completely and is only focused on my breathing pattern, which is very soothing. In addition, as I stretch my body and sweat, I can feel refreshed and energetic again. It's a good escape from the hectic week so I'd recommend my friend to do the same.
Task2
1 、A friend of yours is going to study at another university and he's worried that he won't be able to make any friends there. What suggestions would you give him and why?
Personally, I would tell my friend to try to get involved in student clubs in order to make friends because it's easier to make friends when you have something in common with other people. For example, when I was in college I did not know anyone in my class before I started. However, I did know that I was interested in writing and literature so I joined the literary society. They had writer's groups every week by sharing our writing we got to know each other. Sometimes